.TH skedia 1 "16 Feb 20"
.SH NAME
skedia \- Graph functions and implicit curves in the terminal


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B skedia
[ \-? | \-\-help | \-\-usage ]
[ \-e \fIXPOS,YPOS\fP ]
[ \-w \fIWIDTH\fP ] [\-h \fIHEIGHT\fP ]
[ \-x | \-\-intersects]
[\-i \fIEQU1\fP [ \-c \fICOL1\fP ]
[ \-i \fIEQU2\fP [ \-c \fICOL2\fP ] ... ]]


.SH DESCRIPTION
Skedia is a ncurses-based 2D graph viewer.
It supports the definition of implicit curves using builtin math functions
as well as user\-defined variables and functions.
It allows dilations and translations of the plane to navigate the curves.
It also supports calculation of the intersection points of curves.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-i, \-\-input=\fIEQUATION\fP
The equation(s) for the curves as well as
user\-defined variables and functions.
May be specified on command line
or while the program is running.

.TP
.B \-c, \-\-color=\fICOLOR\fP
Set color of associated equation.
Possible colors are
red (\fBr\fP), green (\fBg\fP), blue (\fBb\fP),
cyan(\fBc\fP), yellow(\fBy\fP), or magenta (\fBm\fP)
Defaults to red.

.TP
.B \-e, \-\-center=\fIX,Y\fP
Set the initial center of the plane.
Defaults to the origin, (0, 0).

.TP
.B \-w, \-\-width=\fIUNITS\fP \t \-h, \-\-height=\fIUNITS\fP
Specify the size of the graph in the plane in units.
Defaults to 10 by 10 which displays
the \fBx\fP values from -5 to 5
and the \fBy\fP values from -5 to 5.

.TP
.B \-x, \-\-intersects
Only calculate and print the intersections
of the curves given with \fB-i\fP or \fB--input\fP. \fIncurses\fP is not started and
the color (\fB-c\fP), width (\fB-w\fP), height (\fB-h\fP), and center (\fB-e\fP) values are not used.

.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show help message including program controls

.TP
.B \-\-usage
Show usage message for command line arguments


.SH CONTROLS

The controls for \fIskedia\fP change depending on the mode the program is in.
When in Graph Mode, keystrokes will affect
the graph containing the curves and grid on the right side of the screen.
When in Gallery Mode, the keystrokes will affect
the gallery containing the equations on the left side of the screen.

GRAPH MODE
.RS

.TP
.B Arrow Keys / hjkl
Move Graph.

.TP
.B Shift + Arrow Keys / HJKL
Resize horizontally and vertically.
Shift left zooms in horizontally.
Shift right zooms out horizontally.
Shift up zooms in vertically.
Shift down zooms out vertically.

.TP
.B '=' key
Zoom In keeping the center fixed.

.TP
.B '-' key
Zoom Out keeping the center fixed.

.TP
.B '0' key
Return to default Zoom level.
Set width to 10 units and height to 10 units.

.TP
.B 'n' or 'N'
Calculate / Recalculate Intersection points
within visible window between curves.

.TP
.B 'c' or 'C'
Clear all calculated intersection points.

.TP
.B ',' or '<'
Select prior intersection point among all intersections.

.TP
.B '.' or '>'
Select next intersection point among all intersections.

.TP
.B Control-A (^A)
Switch to gallery mode and create new textbox for equation.

.TP
.B Control-C (^C) or Control (^Z) or 'q' or 'Q'
Quit program.

.RE

GALLERY MODE
.RS

.TP
.B Left & Right Arrow Keys
When in textbox, moves between characters.
When on color picker, changes color.

.TP
.B Up & Down Arrow Keys
Move to color picker for textbox or between textboxes.

.TP
.B Backspace Key
Removes character before cursor.

.TP
.B Home Key
Moves cursor to the beginning of the current textbox.

.TP
.B End Key
Move cursor to the end of the current textbox.

.TP
.B Control-A (^A)
Switch to gallery mode and create new textbox for equation.

.TP
.B Control-D (^D)
Delete currently selected textbox and equation.
Moves textbox selection to the first textbox in the gallery.

.TP
.B Escape Key
Switch to Graph Mode.

.TP
.B Control-C (^C) or Control-Z (^Z)
Quit program.

.RE


.SH FUNCTIONS
\fIskedia\fP supports the builtin functions provided by math.h
.P
The trigonometric functions: \fBsin\fP, \fBcos\fP, \fBtan\fP, \fBsec\fP, \fBcsc\fP, and \fBcot\fP.
.P
The inverse trigonometric functions: \fBasin\fP, \fBacos\fP, \fBatan\fP, and \fBatan2\fP.
.P
The hyperbolic trigonometric functions: \fBsinh\fP, \fBcosh\fP, and \fBtanh\fP.
.P
Exponentiation and logrithms: \fBexp\fP, \fBln\fP, and \fBlog10\fP.
.P
Roots: \fBsqrt\fP and \fBcbrt\fP.
.P
Integer rectification and magnitude: \fBabs\fP, \fBceil\fP, and \fBfloor\fP.


.SH AUTHOR
.IP
Tanner Reese <tannerjamesreese@gmail.com>.

